=pod

=head1 NAME

Term::Emulator - Interprets terminal escape sequences

=head1 VERSION

version 0.01

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Term::Emulator;

    # Basic Usage
    my $term = Term::Emulator->new;

    # run a child program
    $term->execute('ls');

    # save its output
    $term->save('ls-output.png');

    # Advanced Usage

    # $term->execute(@args) is really shorthand for...
    my $pid = fork();

    if($pid) {
        waitpid $pid, 0;
    } else {
        $term->attach; # ASSUMING DIRECT CONTROL
        exec @args;
    }

    # Explicit Dimensions
    my $term = Term::Emulator->new(
        width  => 80,
        height => 25,
    );

    # Background Processes
    $term->execute_background('vim');
    $term->feed(":q\n");
    $term->wait;

    # Explicit Backend
    my $term = Term::Emulator->new(
        backend => Term::Emulator::Backend::Logger->new,
    );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

L<Term::Emulator> exists so that Perl programs may run child
programs in a pseudo-terminal environment and record what they're
doing.  This could be recording a text-based description, creating
a PNG snapshot of the terminal's state at the end of the program,
or even creating an animated GIF showing the change in terminal state
over the course of the execution.  You could even use this module to
write your own graphical terminal emulator in Perl!

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

=head2 width

The width of the terminal to create, in columns.  Defaults to the
width of the current terminal.

=head2 height

The height of the terminal to create, in rows.  Defaults to the
height of the current terminal.

=head2 backend

The backend to handle actions specified by the terminal sequences.
Must consume the L<Term::Emulator::Backend> role.  Defaults to
L<Term::Emulator::Backend::Cairo>.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Term::Emulator->new(%options)

Creates a new L<Term::Emulator> object.  The valid key/value pairs for
C<%options> are any of the attributes listed under L</ATTRIBUTES>.

=head2 $term->execute(@args)

Executes a new program using this L<Term::Emulator> object as the terminal
and waits for it to exit (ie. functions like L<system>).  L<@args> are fed
directly to L<exec>, so no shell shenanigans work here.

Dies if a background process is currently running.

=head2 $term->execute_background(@args)

Executes a new program using this L<Term::Emulator> object as the terminal
and lets it run in the background.  You can feed new input to it via
L</feed>, or wait for it via L</wait>.  Returns the pid of the new process.

Dies if a background process is currently running.

=head2 $term->execute_bg(@args)

An alias for L</execute_background>.

=head2 $term->save($filename)

Saves the current terminal output to C<$filename>.  This really just forwards
to the C<save> method of the backend object, so check your backend's
documentation.

=head2 $term->attach()

Sets up this L<Term::Emulator> object as the terminal for the current process.
You should rarely have to do this, and when you do, it'll likely be from a
child process.

=head2 $term->feed($input)

Feeds the given input to the terminal.  Dies if no background process is
running.

=head2 $term->wait()

Waits for the current background process to exit.  Dies if there is no
background process to wait for.

=head2 $term->reset()

Resets the terminal's state.  This may come in handy when running several
programs and you don't want them to step on each others' toes.

=head1 RATIONALE

The reason I decided to write this module was as a debugging tool for running Vim
in a pseudo-terminal when using it in an automated fashion.  I'm hoping that others
find other uses for it.

=head1 CAVEATS

This is an early version of this module, so it has the following caveats:

=over 4

=item *

Implements a small subset of XTerm control sequences.

=item *

Running more than one program (one after the other) currently doesn't work.

=item *

All handling of input from the child program happens in L</wait>.  I'd like
to add a method to process a chunk of input, and/or provide hooks that can
be used with an event loop.

=item *

L</reset> currently does nothing.

=item *

Specifying a custom terminal size currently does nothing.

=item *

There's only a single backend at the moment (Cairo).

=item *

The Cairo backend doesn't handle terminal attributes or background colors.

=item *

The Cairo backend has a lot of hardcoded crap in it (font family, font size, colors, etc)

=item *

I can't vouch for this module's performance.  It's fast enough in my tests; I'll work on
performance improvements as needed.

=item *

Error handling could be better.

=item *

UTF-8 support isn't there.

=item *

The Cairo backend can only write PNG files.

=item *

The usage described by "Advanced Usage" doesn't work.

=back

I hope to have addressed most of these by the first actual release.

=head1 AUTHOR

Rob Hoelz <rob@hoelz.ro>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2013 by Rob Hoelz.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests on the bugtracker website
https://github.com/hoelzro/term-emulator/issues

When submitting a bug or request, please include a test-file or a
patch to an existing test-file that illustrates the bug or desired
feature.

